Add ADR 019: Automated Content Deployment (#2151)
wmde/FundraisingFrontend: doc/adr/019_Automated_Content_Deployment.md

branch) to the destination servers associated with the branch.

## Decision Drivers

* For security reasons, we want to host the system that does the
  deployment on our own infrastructure.
* The repository consists of several files. We want the deployment to be
  *atomic*, i.e our application either uses the new set of files or the old
  one, but never a mix.
* We have three production servers that need to receive the new version
  simultaneously (although not atomically).
* We would like the system to notify us (via email) when a deployment failed.
* We would like to have a record (e.g. log file) of successful deployments.
* We have an Ansible playbook that does the atomic deployment to the test
  and production servers.
* We have a `Dockerfile` definition that packages Ansible, the deployment
  playbooks and our server configuration into a standalone Docker image.
  The deployment software can run this Docker image to do the deployment.
* We prefer "configuration as code" over setting up workflows in a GUI.
* The maintenance and onboarding effort for the system should be as low 
  as possible.
* (Optional) It would be nice if we had a "button" to trigger the
  deployment

> * (Optional) It would be nice if branches of the application could be

Author: Yeah, that sentence doesn't make much sense. But I know what I wanted to say, so I'll rewrite it as "It would be nice if feature branches of the application repository could be associated with feature branches in the content repository (instead of using `test`)."

Does that make it clearer?

> * (Optional) It would be nice if branches of the application could be

Reviewer: Yep 👍

* Good, because we have a working prototype.
* Good, because we could reuse it for other deployments in the future.
* Good, because it's a learning opportunity.
* Bad, because it does too much - it's a whole CI system and we need only
  a small portion. This creates onboarding (YAML syntax), setup and
  maintenance effort.
* Bad, because the compant Harness bought the project and it might linger
  or change focus/direction, even as an open source project.

### Ansible web GUI

With our Ansible-based deployment, a CI/CD system with its own
configuration language is the wrong tool for the job, we need a "http
trigger" for Ansible playbooks. There are software systems which do this:

- [Ansible AWX](https://github.com/ansible/awx)
- [Rundeck](https://www.rundeck.com/ansible)
- [Semaphore](https://ansible-semaphore.com/)
- [Polemarch](https://github.com/vstconsulting/polemarch)
- [nci-ansible-gui](https://github.com/node-ci/nci-ansible-ui)

* Good, because we're using the right tool for the job
* Good, because we can reuse it for other deployments
* Bad, because of the added complexity of the additional functionality of
  those products.

> * Bad, because of the effort require dto pick the right product and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Bad, because of the effort required to pick the right product and
```

  configure it.

### Custom webhook script

The script would expose an HTTP endpoint that does the following steps:

- Verify the GitHub authentication token.
- Parse the webhook request and check if the repository and branch matches
  a configured deploy destination.
- Pull the newest version of the "Ansible Runner" image
- Run the "Ansible Runner" image to deploy, parameterized by the branch.
- (Optional) Rate limit the requests (e.g. max 1 per minute) to avoid abuse.

We would automatically build the ansible runner via GitLab.

We would add another step to the deploy playbook that involves
notification on failure.

We can do the veryfication and parsing of the request with
https://packagist.org/packages/swop/github-webhook

Open question: How to communicate with Docker? We can't use the Docker
cli, because we don't want to allow the web server to access it (for
security reasons). We'd have to investigate PHP libraries that communicate

> iwth Docker of an encrypted TCP socket, using a certificate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with Docker of an encrypted TCP socket, using a certificate.
```
